rs/rosetta-api/docs/modules/rosetta-api/pages/staking-support.adoc, before:

= Staking and neuron management

This document specifies extensions of the Rosetta API enabling staking funds and managing governance "neurons" on the Internet Computer.

NOTE: Operations within a transaction are applied in order, so the order of operations is significant.
Transactions that contain idempotent operations provided by this API can be re-tried within the 24-hour window.

NOTE: Due to limitations of the governance canister smart contract, neuron management operations are not reflected on the chain.
If you lookup transactions by identifier returned from the `/construction/submit` endpoint, these transactions might not exist or miss neuron management operations.
Instead, `/construction/submit` returns the statuses of all the operations in the `metadata` field using the same format as `/block/transaction` would return.

== Deriving neuron address

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0
|===

Call the `/construction/derive` endpoint with metadata field `account_type` set to `"neuron"` to compute the ledger address corresponding to the neuron controlled by the public key.

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101"
  },
  "public_key": {
    "hex_bytes": "1b400d60aaf34eaf6dcbab9bba46001a23497886cf11066f7846933d30e5ad3f",
    "curve_type": "edwards25519"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "account_type": "neuron",
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

NOTE: Since version 1.3.0, you can control many neurons using the same key.
You can differentiate between neurons by specifying different values of the `neuron_index` metadata field.
The `neuron_index` field is supported by all neuron management operations and is equal to zero if not specified.

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "account_identifier": {
    "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a"
  }
}
----

== Stake funds

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.0.5

| Idempotent?
| yes
|===

To stake funds, execute a transfer to the neuron address followed by a `STAKE` operation.

The only field that you must set for the `STAKE` operation is `account`, which should be equal to the ledger account of the neuron controller.
You can specify `neuron_index` field in the `metadata` field of the `STAKE` operation.
If you do specify the `neuron_index`, its value must be the same as you used to derive the neuron account identifier.

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101",
  },
  "operations": [
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-100000000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 1 },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": { "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "100000000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 2 },
      "type": "FEE",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-10000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 3 },
      "type": "STAKE",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "metadata": {
        "neuron_index": 0
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "transaction_identifier": {
    "hash": "2f23fd8cca835af21f3ac375bac601f97ead75f2e79143bdf71fe2c4be043e8f"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "operations": [
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
        "type": "TRANSACTION",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "-100000000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 1 },
        "type": "TRANSACTION",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "100000000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 2 },
        "type": "FEE",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "-10000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 3 },
        "type": "STAKE",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "metadata": {
          "neuron_index": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Managing neurons

=== Setting dissolve timestamp

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

This operation updates the time when the neuron can reach the `DISSOLVED` state.

Dissolve timestamp always increases monotonically.

  * If the neuron is in the `DISSOLVING` state, this operation can move the dissolve timestamp further into the future.
  * If the neuron is in the `NOT_DISSOLVING` state, invoking `SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP` with time T will attempt to increase the neuron's dissolve delay (the minimal time it will take to dissolve the neuron) to `T - current_time`.
  * If the neuron is in the `DISSOLVED` state, invoking `SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP` will move it to the `NOT_DISSOLVING` state and will set the dissolve delay accordingly.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron contoller.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 4 },
  "type": "SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "dissolve_time_utc_seconds": 1879939507
  }
}
----

=== Start dissolving

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `START_DISSOLVNG` operation changes the state of the neuron to `DISSOLVING`.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron contoller.

.Postconditions
  * The neuron is in the `DISSOLVING` state.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 5 },
  "type": "START_DISSOLVING",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" 
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

=== Stop dissolving

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `STOP_DISSOLVNG` operation changes the state of the neuron to `NOT_DISSOLVING`.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron contoller.

.Postconditions
  * The neuron is in `NOT_DISSOLVING` state.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 6 },
  "type": "STOP_DISSOLVING",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" 
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

=== Adding hotkeys

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.2.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `ADD_HOTKEY` operation adds a hotkey to the neuron.
The Governance canister smart contract allows some non-critical operations to be signed with a hotkey instead of the controller's key (e.g., voting and querying maturity).

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron controller.
  * The neuron has less than 10 hotkeys.

The command has two forms: one form accepts an https://smartcontracts.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html#principal[IC principal] as a hotkey, another form accepts a https://www.rosetta-api.org/docs/models/PublicKey.html[public key].

==== Add a principal as a hotkey

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "ADD_HOTKEY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "principal": "sp3em-jkiyw-tospm-2huim-jor4p-et4s7-ay35f-q7tnm-hi4k2-pyicb-xae"
  }
}
----

==== Add a public key as a hotkey

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "ADD_HOTKEY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "public_key": {
      "hex_bytes":  "1b400d60aaf34eaf6dcbab9bba46001a23497886cf11066f7846933d30e5ad3f",
      "curve_type": "edwards25519"
    }
  }
}
----

=== Spawn neurons

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `SPAWN` operation creates a new neuron from an existing neuron with enough maturity.
This operation transfers all the maturity from the existing neuron to the staked amount of the newly spawned neuron.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron controller.
  * The parent neuron has at least 1 ICP worth of maturity.

.Postconditions
  * Parent neuron maturity is set to `0`.
  * A new neuron is spawned with a balance equal to the transferred maturity.

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "SPAWN",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "controller": "sp3em-jkiyw-tospm-2huim-jor4p-et4s7-ay35f-q7tnm-hi4k2-pyicb-xae",
    "spawned_neuron_index": 1
  }
}
----

[NOTE] 
====
  * `controller` metadata field is optional and equal to the existing neuron controller by default.
  * `spawned_neuron_index` metadata field is required.
    The rosetta node uses this index to compute the subaccount for the spawned neuron.
    All spawned neurons must have different values of `spawned_neuron_index`.
====

=== Merge neuron maturity

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.4.0

| Idempotent?
| no

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `MERGE_MATURITY` operation merges the existing maturity of the neuron into its stake.
The percentage of maturity to merge can be specified, otherwise the entire maturity is merged.

.Preconditions
 * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron controller.
 * The neuron has non-zero maturity to merge.

.Postconditions
 * Maturity decreased by the amount merged. 
 * Neuron stake increased by the amount merged.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "MERGE_MATURITY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "percentage_to_merge": 14
  }
}
----

NOTE: `percentage_to_merge` metadata field is optional and equal to 100 by default.
If specified, the value must be an integer between 1 and 100 (bounds included).

== Accessing neuron attributes

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0

| Minimal access level
| public
|===

Call the `/account/balance` endpoint to access the staked amount and publicly available neuron metadata.

.Preconditions
  * `public_key` contains the public key of a neuron's controller.

[NOTE]
====
  * This operation is available only in online mode.
  * The request should not specify any block identifier because the endpoint always returns the latest state of the neuron.
====

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101"
  },
  "account_identifier": {
    "address": "a4ac33c6a25a102756e3aac64fe9d3267dbef25392d031cfb3d2185dba93b4c4"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "account_type": "neuron",
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "public_key": {
      "hex_bytes": "ba5242d02642aede88a5f9fe82482a9fd0b6dc25f38c729253116c6865384a9d",
      "curve_type": "edwards25519"
    }
  }
}
----

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "block_identifier": {
    "index": 1150,
    "hash": "ca02e34bafa2f58b18a66073deb5f389271ee74bd59a024f9f7b176a890039b2"
  },
  "balances": [
    {
      "value": "100000000",
      "currency": {
        "symbol": "ICP",
        "decimals": 8
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "verified_query": false,
    "retrieved_at_timestamp_seconds": 1639670156,
    "state": "DISSOLVING",
    "age_seconds": 0,
    "dissolve_delay_seconds": 240269355,
    "voting_power": 195170955,
    "created_timestamp_seconds": 1638802541
  }
}
----

Commit message:

rosetta: specify the bounds on neuron_index and memo in the docs

rs/rosetta-api/docs/modules/rosetta-api/pages/staking-support.adoc, after:

= Staking and neuron management

This document specifies extensions of the Rosetta API enabling staking funds and managing governance "neurons" on the Internet Computer.

NOTE: Operations within a transaction are applied in order, so the order of operations is significant.
Transactions that contain idempotent operations provided by this API can be re-tried within the 24-hour window.

NOTE: Due to limitations of the governance canister smart contract, neuron management operations are not reflected on the chain.
If you lookup transactions by identifier returned from the `/construction/submit` endpoint, these transactions might not exist or miss neuron management operations.
Instead, `/construction/submit` returns the statuses of all the operations in the `metadata` field using the same format as `/block/transaction` would return.

== Deriving neuron address

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0
|===

Call the `/construction/derive` endpoint with metadata field `account_type` set to `"neuron"` to compute the ledger address corresponding to the neuron controlled by the public key.

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101"
  },
  "public_key": {
    "hex_bytes": "1b400d60aaf34eaf6dcbab9bba46001a23497886cf11066f7846933d30e5ad3f",
    "curve_type": "edwards25519"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "account_type": "neuron",
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

NOTE: Since version 1.3.0, you can control many neurons using the same key.
You can differentiate between neurons by specifying different values of the `neuron_index` metadata field.
The rosetta node supports `neuron_index` in all neuron management operations.
`neuron_index` is an arbitrary integer between `0` and `2^64^ - 1` (`18446744073709551615`).
It is equal to zero if not specified.
If you use JavaScript to construct requests to the Rosetta node, consider using the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt[`BigInt`] type to represent the `neuron_index`.
The `Number` type can precisely represent only values below `2^53^ - 1` (`9007199254740991`).

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "account_identifier": {
    "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a"
  }
}
----

== Stake funds

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.0.5

| Idempotent?
| yes
|===

To stake funds, execute a transfer to the neuron address followed by a `STAKE` operation.

The only field that you must set for the `STAKE` operation is `account`, which should be equal to the ledger account of the neuron controller.
You can specify `neuron_index` field in the `metadata` field of the `STAKE` operation.
If you do specify the `neuron_index`, its value must be the same as you used to derive the neuron account identifier.

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101",
  },
  "operations": [
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-100000000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 1 },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": { "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "100000000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 2 },
      "type": "FEE",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-10000",
        "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": { "index": 3 },
      "type": "STAKE",
      "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
      "metadata": {
        "neuron_index": 0
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "transaction_identifier": {
    "hash": "2f23fd8cca835af21f3ac375bac601f97ead75f2e79143bdf71fe2c4be043e8f"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "operations": [
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
        "type": "TRANSACTION",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "-100000000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 1 },
        "type": "TRANSACTION",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "531b163cd9d6c1d88f867bdf16f1ede020be7bcd928d746f92fbf7e797c5526a" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "100000000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 2 },
        "type": "FEE",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "amount": {
          "value": "-10000",
          "currency": { "symbol": "ICP", "decimals": 8 }
        }
      },
      {
        "operation_identifier": { "index": 3 },
        "type": "STAKE",
        "status": "COMPLETED",
        "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
        "metadata": {
          "neuron_index": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Managing neurons

=== Setting dissolve timestamp

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

This operation updates the time when the neuron can reach the `DISSOLVED` state.

Dissolve timestamp always increases monotonically.

  * If the neuron is in the `DISSOLVING` state, this operation can move the dissolve timestamp further into the future.
  * If the neuron is in the `NOT_DISSOLVING` state, invoking `SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP` with time T will attempt to increase the neuron's dissolve delay (the minimal time it will take to dissolve the neuron) to `T - current_time`.
  * If the neuron is in the `DISSOLVED` state, invoking `SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP` will move it to the `NOT_DISSOLVING` state and will set the dissolve delay accordingly.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron contoller.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 4 },
  "type": "SET_DISSOLVE_TIMESTAMP",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "dissolve_time_utc_seconds": 1879939507
  }
}
----

=== Start dissolving

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `START_DISSOLVNG` operation changes the state of the neuron to `DISSOLVING`.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron contoller.

.Postconditions
  * The neuron is in the `DISSOLVING` state.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 5 },
  "type": "START_DISSOLVING",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" 
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

=== Stop dissolving

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.1.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `STOP_DISSOLVNG` operation changes the state of the neuron to `NOT_DISSOLVING`.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron contoller.

.Postconditions
  * The neuron is in `NOT_DISSOLVING` state.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 6 },
  "type": "STOP_DISSOLVING",
  "account": {
    "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" 
  },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0
  }
}
----

=== Adding hotkeys

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.2.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `ADD_HOTKEY` operation adds a hotkey to the neuron.
The Governance canister smart contract allows some non-critical operations to be signed with a hotkey instead of the controller's key (e.g., voting and querying maturity).

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron controller.
  * The neuron has less than 10 hotkeys.

The command has two forms: one form accepts an https://smartcontracts.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html#principal[IC principal] as a hotkey, another form accepts a https://www.rosetta-api.org/docs/models/PublicKey.html[public key].

==== Add a principal as a hotkey

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "ADD_HOTKEY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "principal": "sp3em-jkiyw-tospm-2huim-jor4p-et4s7-ay35f-q7tnm-hi4k2-pyicb-xae"
  }
}
----

==== Add a public key as a hotkey

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "ADD_HOTKEY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "public_key": {
      "hex_bytes":  "1b400d60aaf34eaf6dcbab9bba46001a23497886cf11066f7846933d30e5ad3f",
      "curve_type": "edwards25519"
    }
  }
}
----

=== Spawn neurons

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0

| Idempotent?
| yes

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `SPAWN` operation creates a new neuron from an existing neuron with enough maturity.
This operation transfers all the maturity from the existing neuron to the staked amount of the newly spawned neuron.

.Preconditions
  * `account.address` is a ledger address of a neuron controller.
  * The parent neuron has at least 1 ICP worth of maturity.

.Postconditions
  * Parent neuron maturity is set to `0`.
  * A new neuron is spawned with a balance equal to the transferred maturity.

[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "SPAWN",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "controller": "sp3em-jkiyw-tospm-2huim-jor4p-et4s7-ay35f-q7tnm-hi4k2-pyicb-xae",
    "spawned_neuron_index": 1
  }
}
----

[NOTE] 
====
  * `controller` metadata field is optional and equal to the existing neuron controller by default.
  * `spawned_neuron_index` metadata field is required.
    The rosetta node uses this index to compute the subaccount for the spawned neuron.
    All spawned neurons must have different values of `spawned_neuron_index`.
====

=== Merge neuron maturity

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.4.0

| Idempotent?
| no

| Minimal access level
| controller
|===

The `MERGE_MATURITY` operation merges the existing maturity of the neuron into its stake.
The percentage of maturity to merge can be specified, otherwise the entire maturity is merged.

.Preconditions
 * `account.address` is the ledger address of the neuron controller.
 * The neuron has non-zero maturity to merge.

.Postconditions
 * Maturity decreased by the amount merged. 
 * Neuron stake increased by the amount merged.

.Example
[source,json]
----
{
  "operation_identifier": { "index": 0 },
  "type": "MERGE_MATURITY",
  "account": { "address": "907ff6c714a545110b42982b72aa39c5b7742d610e234a9d40bf8cf624e7a70d" },
  "metadata": {
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "percentage_to_merge": 14
  }
}
----

NOTE: `percentage_to_merge` metadata field is optional and equal to 100 by default.
If specified, the value must be an integer between 1 and 100 (bounds included).

== Accessing neuron attributes

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Since version
| 1.3.0

| Minimal access level
| public
|===

Call the `/account/balance` endpoint to access the staked amount and publicly available neuron metadata.

.Preconditions
  * `public_key` contains the public key of a neuron's controller.

[NOTE]
====
  * This operation is available only in online mode.
  * The request should not specify any block identifier because the endpoint always returns the latest state of the neuron.
====

=== Request

[source,json]
----
{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101"
  },
  "account_identifier": {
    "address": "a4ac33c6a25a102756e3aac64fe9d3267dbef25392d031cfb3d2185dba93b4c4"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "account_type": "neuron",
    "neuron_index": 0,
    "public_key": {
      "hex_bytes": "ba5242d02642aede88a5f9fe82482a9fd0b6dc25f38c729253116c6865384a9d",
      "curve_type": "edwards25519"
    }
  }
}
----

=== Response

[source,json]
----
{
  "block_identifier": {
    "index": 1150,
    "hash": "ca02e34bafa2f58b18a66073deb5f389271ee74bd59a024f9f7b176a890039b2"
  },
  "balances": [
    {
      "value": "100000000",
      "currency": {
        "symbol": "ICP",
        "decimals": 8
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "verified_query": false,
    "retrieved_at_timestamp_seconds": 1639670156,
    "state": "DISSOLVING",
    "age_seconds": 0,
    "dissolve_delay_seconds": 240269355,
    "voting_power": 195170955,
    "created_timestamp_seconds": 1638802541
  }
}
----
