rs/http_handler/README.adoc, before:

= Http Handler
:toc:

== Introduction

The http handler is responsible for processing http requests as specified in the
https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html#http-interface[IC specification]. Processing semantics include:

* managing TCP connections
* managing secure and insecure connections
* safe receiving of http body
* request validation according to the https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html[interface specification of the IC]

In addition, the http handler serves content under /_/{dashboard|catch_up_package|pprof} for 
operational purposes.

== tower::Service FAQ

=== When implementing a https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/trait.Service.html[tower::Service], use https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/util/struct.BoxService.html[tower::util::BoxService] as the public interface

When you have an implementation of the Service trait in one crate and you want to share that implementation
with other crates, then there are few options what to export as public interface:

* (preferred) +BoxService<...>+ is concise way to define an object that implements the Service trait. 
* The class that implements the trait. Within the code base we discourage making a struct public
that crosses API boundaries.
* +Arc<dyn Service ...>+. When using a Service with https://docs.rs/hyper/0.14.14/hyper[Hyper], Hyper
takes ownership of the Service object. So, +Arc<...>+ is not the most suitable choice. 
* +Box<dyn Service ...>+. More verbose than +BoxService<...>+, because you need to specify the
associated types. Also, a plain BoxService object is simpler to reason about than a smart pointer
like +Box<dyn Service...>+.

=== I want my service to be shared across many threads

Implementations of the Service trait are not necessary https://dfinity-lab.gitlab.io/core/ic/docs/spec/meta/rust.html#_thread_safe_types[thread-safe].
Here the +BoxService+ comes handy because it tries to protect the caller of your service from race
conditions. +BoxService+ doesn't implement +Clone+ nor +Copy+. Hence we can't have two copies/clones of
the same object that we pass to different threads. You can wrap the service object in an +Arc<...>+
but you need to call +get_mut+ which will fail as soon as you have more than one Arc.

Here are few options for sharing an object that implements the Service trait:

* (preferred) Use a https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/buffer/index.html[buffer] service around the 
object. This effectively places the service behind a multi-producer, single-consumer buffering channel.
* Wrap the object in a +Arc<Mutex<...>>+. The caller must make sure the mutex is acquired for the whole 
duration from calling +poll_ready+ until +call+ returns. This is effectively the same as the "buffer" approach.
With this approach is hard to control the contention on the mutex (it is hard to know how many threads are stuck
waiting to acquire the mutex).

==== Returning errors

If +Poll::Ready(Err(_))+ is returned when +poll_ready+ is called, the service is no longer able to service requests and the caller should discard the service instance. https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/trait.Service.html#tymethod.poll_ready[[docs.rs]]

Returning a +Service::Error+ to a hyper server will cause the connection to be abruptly aborted. https://docs.rs/hyper/0.14.15/src/hyper/service/http.rs.html[[docs.rs]]

==== Avoid returning https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/load_shed/struct.LoadShed.html[tower::LoadShed] as part of a public API

Having LoadShed<...> as part of cross-component API just increases the API surface - the client needs reason 
about the addition semantics LoadShed introduces. +LoadShed+ also restricts the +Service::Error+ type to be 
+BoxError+.

==== Avoid driving clones of a service object ready without using them

Some layers keep internal state in the form of semaphore permits. If you acquire a semaphore permit
better use it or free it. This semantics doesn't play very well the https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/steer/index.html[tower::Steer] service.
For example, if we create a Steer service per TCP connection and one of the upstream services uses a buffer,
then each connection will try to acquire a semaphore permit. However, it may be that only a small number of
connection use that permit.

Commit message:

Add few sentences for http handler startup

rs/http_handler/README.adoc, after:

= Http Handler
:toc:

== Introduction

The http handler is responsible for processing http requests as specified in the
https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html#http-interface[IC specification]. Processing semantics include:

* managing TCP connections
* managing secure and insecure connections
* safe receiving of http body
* request validation according to the https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/interface-spec/index.html[interface specification of the IC]

In addition, the http handler serves content under /_/{dashboard|catch_up_package|pprof} for 
operational purposes.

=== Startup

The HTTP handler starts accepting requests as soon as it is instantiated. This is driven by operational needs, we want to serve
/status, /dashboard, /catch_up_package endpoints as soon as possible.

In order to serve query, read_state or call requests the replica needs to meet few preconditions.
The precondidation are encoded in the +ic_types::messages::ReplicaHealthStatus+ enum. 

If you try to send, for example a query request, before the replica enters ReplicaHealthStatus::Healthy, then
503 Service Unavailable will be returned as part of the response.

== tower::Service FAQ

=== When implementing a https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/trait.Service.html[tower::Service], use https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/util/struct.BoxService.html[tower::util::BoxService] as the public interface

When you have an implementation of the Service trait in one crate and you want to share that implementation
with other crates, then there are few options what to export as public interface:

* (preferred) +BoxService<...>+ is concise way to define an object that implements the Service trait. 
* The class that implements the trait. Within the code base we discourage making a struct public
that crosses API boundaries.
* +Arc<dyn Service ...>+. When using a Service with https://docs.rs/hyper/0.14.14/hyper[Hyper], Hyper
takes ownership of the Service object. So, +Arc<...>+ is not the most suitable choice. 
* +Box<dyn Service ...>+. More verbose than +BoxService<...>+, because you need to specify the
associated types. Also, a plain BoxService object is simpler to reason about than a smart pointer
like +Box<dyn Service...>+.

=== I want my service to be shared across many threads

Implementations of the Service trait are not necessary https://dfinity-lab.gitlab.io/core/ic/docs/spec/meta/rust.html#_thread_safe_types[thread-safe].
Here the +BoxService+ comes handy because it tries to protect the caller of your service from race
conditions. +BoxService+ doesn't implement +Clone+ nor +Copy+. Hence we can't have two copies/clones of
the same object that we pass to different threads. You can wrap the service object in an +Arc<...>+
but you need to call +get_mut+ which will fail as soon as you have more than one Arc.

Here are few options for sharing an object that implements the Service trait:

* (preferred) Use a https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/buffer/index.html[buffer] service around the 
object. This effectively places the service behind a multi-producer, single-consumer buffering channel.
* Wrap the object in a +Arc<Mutex<...>>+. The caller must make sure the mutex is acquired for the whole 
duration from calling +poll_ready+ until +call+ returns. This is effectively the same as the "buffer" approach.
With this approach is hard to control the contention on the mutex (it is hard to know how many threads are stuck
waiting to acquire the mutex).

=== Returning errors

If +Poll::Ready(Err(_))+ is returned when +poll_ready+ is called, the service is no longer able to service requests and the caller should discard the service instance. https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/trait.Service.html#tymethod.poll_ready[[docs.rs]]

Returning a +Service::Error+ to a hyper server will cause the connection to be abruptly aborted. https://docs.rs/hyper/0.14.15/src/hyper/service/http.rs.html[[docs.rs]]

==== Avoid returning https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/load_shed/struct.LoadShed.html[tower::LoadShed] as part of a public API

Having LoadShed<...> as part of cross-component API just increases the API surface - the client needs reason 
about the addition semantics LoadShed introduces. +LoadShed+ also restricts the +Service::Error+ type to be 
+BoxError+.

=== Avoid driving clones of a service object ready without using them

Some layers keep internal state in the form of semaphore permits. If you acquire a semaphore permit
better use it or free it. This semantics doesn't play very well the https://docs.rs/tower/0.4.11/tower/steer/index.html[tower::Steer] service.
For example, if we create a Steer service per TCP connection and one of the upstream services uses a buffer,
then each connection will try to acquire a semaphore permit. However, it may be that only a small number of
connection use that permit.
