testnet/docs/alerts/IC_Replica_CriticalError.adoc, before:

= IC_Replica_CriticalError
:icons: font
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix:.adoc]

== Triggered by

A `critical_error` counter was incremented by a replica. This `CounterVec`
(indexed by an `error` label) is used to record "not supposed to happen"
critical errors (within any component) that don't represent an immediate threat
to the health of the replica (and thus don't require panicking; essentially a
`panic!()` without the mess) but are definitely not expected to happen and the
component owners want to be notified immediately if and when they do.

Incrementing the counter is always supposed to be paired with logging an error
message beginning with the exact same label (to make it easy to find) providing
the context necessary for debugging.

Every single `critical_error` variant MUST be documented here, including impact,
possible causes and remediation, where necessary.

== Critical Errors

Critical error names are namespaced, similar to Prometheus metrics. The team
responsible for a given error counter can be determined from the error name
prefix:

 * `mr` and `state_manager`: Message Routing team, reachable at
https://dfinity.slack.com/archives/CKXPC1928[`#eng-messaging`] or via
`+@team-messaging+`on Slack.
 * `cycles_account_manager`: Execution team, reachable at 
 https://dfinity.slack.com/archives/CGZJ7G1J6[`#eng-execution`] or via
 `+@team-execution+`on Slack.

=== `mr_stream_builder_infinite_loop`

An infinite loop was detected while iterating over canister output queues as
part of routing output messages into streams. An occurrence of this error
would indicate a bug in the `PeekableOutputIterator` implementation.

Unless a stream is found to have stalled (which should not be the case, as at
least one message is routed every round) no immediate action is needed.

=== `state_manager_manifest_reused_chunk_hash_error_count`

State Manager uses page deltas to keep track of which Replicated State chunks
have not changed between checkpoints and reuses the corresponding chunk hashes
instead of computing them from scratch every CUP interval. But it also
probabilistically validates these hashes. This error would indicate a mismatch
between the reused and recomputed chunk hash.

An occurrence would indicate either a random bit flip or, if this happens on
multiple replicas, a bug that must be investigated immediately.

=== `state_manager_missing_checkpoints`

State Manager retains one or more checkpoints at all times (for the purpose of
resuming after a crash/restart; and for slow/newly added replicas to use for
catching up with the subnet) as directories on disk. It also keeps track of
the list of checkpoints in a states metadata file. This error indicates that a
checkpoint listed in the states metadata file is not actually present on disk.

An occurrence would very likely point to a bug in either the State Manager or
in the API between State Manager and Consensus.

=== `state_sync_corrupted_chunks`

This is very similar to `state_manager_manifest_reused_chunk_hash_error_count`
above, except the hash mismatch is detected during state sync, for a chunk
that the State Sync implementation had assumed was already present locally.

An occurrence would indicate either a random bit flip or, if this happens on
multiple replicas, a bug that must be investigated immediately.

=== `cycles_account_manager_response_cycles_refund_error`

Cycles Account Manager did not perform a refund of leftover cycles from the 
response (those cycles were reserved in the corresponding request sent 
earlier), since the response was bigger than the max reserved amount.

An occurrence would indicate unexpectedly big response payload size.

Commit message:

EXC-1102: Update runbook with scheduler invariants

testnet/docs/alerts/IC_Replica_CriticalError.adoc, after:

= IC_Replica_CriticalError
:icons: font
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix:.adoc]

== Triggered by

A `critical_error` counter was incremented by a replica. This `CounterVec`
(indexed by an `error` label) is used to record "not supposed to happen"
critical errors (within any component) that don't represent an immediate threat
to the health of the replica (and thus don't require panicking; essentially a
`panic!()` without the mess) but are definitely not expected to happen and the
component owners want to be notified immediately if and when they do.

Incrementing the counter is always supposed to be paired with logging an error
message beginning with the exact same label (to make it easy to find) providing
the context necessary for debugging.

Every single `critical_error` variant MUST be documented here, including impact,
possible causes and remediation, where necessary.

== Critical Errors

Critical error names are namespaced, similar to Prometheus metrics. The team
responsible for a given error counter can be determined from the error name
prefix:

 * `mr` and `state_manager`: Message Routing team, reachable at
https://dfinity.slack.com/archives/CKXPC1928[`#eng-messaging`] or via
`+@team-messaging+`on Slack.
 * `cycles_account_manager` and `scheduler`: Execution team, reachable at
 https://dfinity.slack.com/archives/CGZJ7G1J6[`#eng-execution`] or via
 `+@team-execution+`on Slack.

=== `mr_stream_builder_infinite_loop`

An infinite loop was detected while iterating over canister output queues as
part of routing output messages into streams. An occurrence of this error
would indicate a bug in the `PeekableOutputIterator` implementation.

Unless a stream is found to have stalled (which should not be the case, as at
least one message is routed every round) no immediate action is needed.

=== `state_manager_manifest_reused_chunk_hash_error_count`

State Manager uses page deltas to keep track of which Replicated State chunks
have not changed between checkpoints and reuses the corresponding chunk hashes
instead of computing them from scratch every CUP interval. But it also
probabilistically validates these hashes. This error would indicate a mismatch
between the reused and recomputed chunk hash.

An occurrence would indicate either a random bit flip or, if this happens on
multiple replicas, a bug that must be investigated immediately.

=== `state_manager_missing_checkpoints`

State Manager retains one or more checkpoints at all times (for the purpose of
resuming after a crash/restart; and for slow/newly added replicas to use for
catching up with the subnet) as directories on disk. It also keeps track of
the list of checkpoints in a states metadata file. This error indicates that a
checkpoint listed in the states metadata file is not actually present on disk.

An occurrence would very likely point to a bug in either the State Manager or
in the API between State Manager and Consensus.

=== `state_sync_corrupted_chunks`

This is very similar to `state_manager_manifest_reused_chunk_hash_error_count`
above, except the hash mismatch is detected during state sync, for a chunk
that the State Sync implementation had assumed was already present locally.

An occurrence would indicate either a random bit flip or, if this happens on
multiple replicas, a bug that must be investigated immediately.

=== `cycles_account_manager_response_cycles_refund_error`

Cycles Account Manager did not perform a refund of leftover cycles from the 
response (those cycles were reserved in the corresponding request sent 
earlier), since the response was bigger than the max reserved amount.

An occurrence would indicate unexpectedly big response payload size.

=== `scheduler_canister_invariant_broken`

At least one canister has an invalid state after the execution round.
It could indicate a bug in the code that breaks the canister state invariants.
Based on the replica logs, further investigations are needed to determine which canister has an invalid state and what invariant does not hold anymore.
Check if a recent replica upgrade has happened that could have introduced a code bug.

Escalate to the execution team.

=== `scheduler_subnet_memory_usage_invariant_broken`

At least one subnet where the total amount of storage used by all canisters exceeds the maximum amount of logical storage available.
It could indicate a bug in the code, resulting in canisters exceeding the subnet storage limit allocated.
Further checks are needed to verify if the invariant is broken on different subnets. This could be caused by a recent upgrade that could have introduced a bug.

Escalate to the execution team.
