toolchains/sysimage/README.adoc, before:

= Build tools for disk and filesystem images

This directory contains various scripts that allow building
filesystem and disk images from tar files, and extracting docker
images into appropriately shaped tar files.

It also contains build glue for bazel to make use of these tools
as build rules.

== Build tools

The following build tools are provided:

* +docker_tar.py+: Build a docker image and convert to tar file

* +build_vfat_image.py+: Build vfat fs image from tar file

* +build_ext4_image.py+: Build ext4 fs image from tar file

* +build_disk_image.py+: Build disk image from partition images

The tools are described in more details in the following
sections.

=== +docker_tar.py+: Build a docker image and convert to tar file

Call synopsis: +docker_tar.py _dockerarg_ _dockerarg..._ >__out.tar__+

The tool will call +docker build+ with all extra +_dockerargs_+
passed as arguments to the build. The container will be built,
subsequently extracted, and then saved as a +.tar+ file. The
+.tar+ will hold the contents of the docker image as a single
"flattened" tree (this is different from the output of
+docker save+ which contains a +.tar+ file consisting of
multiple layers of the docker build).

Timestamps and other non-reproducible data resulting from docker
build are squashed in this process, so this also produces
perfectly reproducible results as long as the +Dockerfile+
is suitably structured to avoid generating non-reproducible
artifacts (or takes care of "purging" any non-reproducible
artifacts at the end of the build).

The resulting +.tar+ file is written to stdout.

=== +build_vfat_image.py+ / +build_ext4_image.py+: Build fs image from tar file

Call synopsis: +build_XXX_image.py -s _size_ -o _out.tar_ -i _in.tar_ -p _rootpath_ -S _filecontexts_ _filespec..._+

The tool will build a filesystem image containing the filesystem tree from the
input +_in.tar_+ file as well as the given +_filespecs_+ as individual files.
The filesystem image will have the given nominal +_size_+. Since the image
will (usually) be a very sparse file containing lots of zeroes and some
build systems handle sparse files poorly, the built image is packaged up into
a +.tar+ file itself. The resulting +_out.tar_+ will be an archive
consisting of a single file by the name of +partition.img+. It is
permissible to omit both +_in.tar_+ as well as any +_filespecs_+ resulting
in an empty filesystem.

Size can be given in either bytes (without a unit) or a number followed by
+K+, +M+ or +G+ for kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes, respectively.

Optionally, a +_rootpath_+ can be given. This allows to include only the files
and directories below this path from the +_in.tar_+ (so the filesystem will
effectively contain only a subdirectory of the original archive). Optional,
a +_filecontexts_+ file can be given. This will result in the build of a
labeled filesystem using the SELinux file contexts specified here applied to
each file on the filesystem. (File contexts are not supported for +vfat+
filesystems).

+_filespecs_+ must be a list of zero or more entries of the following form:
+__sourcepath___:__targetpath__:__mode__+. This will cause the file identified
by +__sourcepath__+ to be installed into the target filesystem at the
location +__targetpath__+, owned by +root:root+ and having file system
mode +__mode__+ (given in octal, so e.g. +0755+ for executables and +0644+
for ordinarily readable files).

=== +build_disk_image.py+: Build a disk image from partition images

Call synopsis: +build_disk_image.py -o _out.tar_ -p _partitions.csv_ _part1.tar_ _part2.tar..._+

Builds a GPT-partitionend disk image and puts the given partition image
contents into the respective partitions. The output disk image is generally
a very sparse file containing lots of zeros and some build systems handle
sparse files poorly, so it is wrapped into a +.tar+ file after build.
The resulting +_out.tar_+ is a tar archive containing a single file
named +_disk.img_+ (this is a raw disk image, after unpacking it can be
directly used as e.g. disk image for +qemu+).

The +_partitions.csv_+ must be a CSV file specifying the desired partition layout.
It may consist of lines starting with +#+ designating comments (these are
ignored), and must otherwise contain partition specifications one-by-one in
the following form:

+__name__,__start__,__size__,__typecode__,__uuid__,__description__+

The field have the following semantics:

* +__name__+ is a free-form identifier (used for documentation purposes)

* +__start__+ is the start sector (see below)

* +__size__+ is the size of the partition in sectors

* +__typecode__+ kind of partition, valid values are +U+ for UEFI and +L+ for Linux partitions

* +__uuid__+ UUID written into the GPT, must be unique for the disk (and otherwise just a valid UUID format)

* +__description__+ Freeform text for documentation purposes

Start and size are given in "sector" units (512 bytes). Please take care that partitions
do not overlap, and that start and size are always whole multiples of 1 MByte.

Example structure:
----
esp   ,    2048,  204800,U,B78084E2-3363-1346-8C25-D426F26B8928,EFI system partition
grub  ,  206848,  204800,L,6788E4CF-F456-104E-9A34-A2C58CFB0EE6,Grub bootloader modules and config
config,  411648,  204800,L,A5BA3816-BEAA-D74D-993E-CFA5AA6BA1F6,System config store
A_boot,  616448, 2097152,L,DDF618FE-7244-B446-A175-3296E6B9D02E,Boot partition for system A
A_root, 2713600,20971520,L,7C0A626E-E5EA-E543-B5C5-300EB8304DB7,Root partition for system A
A_var ,23685120,20971520,L,22D2F5A6-1E39-D247-81CF-90C95C113E21,Mutable data partition for system A
B_boot,44656640, 2097152,L,D5214E4F-F7B0-B945-9A9B-52B9188DF4C5,Boot partition for system B
B_root,46753792,20971520,L,A78BC3A8-376C-054A-96E7-3904B915D0C5,Root partition for system B
B_var ,67725312,20971520,L,2237D1D1-CE96-584E-8EC5-8AE6661FAAE9,Mutable data partition for system B
----

The given partition images must be +.tar+ archives that contain exactly one file
named +partition.img+, each. Their contents will be dumped into the correct on-disk location
into their respective partitions in order of definition. Please make sure that the
partitions are sized appropriately (the partition image may be smaller, but must not
be larger than the target partition).

== Bazel build rules

The bazel rules can be imported using:

----
load("//toolchains/sysimage:toolchain.bzl", "docker_tar", "vfat_image", "ext4_image", "disk_image", "tar_extract")
----

=== Build docker image as tar

Synopsis:
[subs="quotes"]
----
docker_tar(
  name="__out.tar__",
  src=__dockerbuildir__,
  dep=[__dependencies...__],
  extra_args=[__args...__],
)
----

Builds a docker image using the given +__dockerbuilddir__+ as build context (this
directory should contain a +Dockerfile+). The bazel build rule needs to be
pointed at the directory itself. All contents of the docker context directory should
be given as additional +__dependencies__+ in order for bazel tracking to work
correctly. All given +__args__+ are passed as extraneous arguments to the
+docker build+ command.

=== Extract file from tar archive

[subs="quotes"]
----
tar_extract(
    name="__target filename__",
    src="__src.tar__",
    path="__path/to/file/in/tar__",
)
----

Extracts the given individual file from the given tar archive. The file can be
used as a generated files in subsequent build steps.

=== Build filesystem image

[subs="quotes"]
----
ext4_image(
    name="__partition.img.tar__",
    partition_size="__size__",
    file_contexts="__file_contexts__",
    subdir="__subdir__",
    src="__tree.tar__",
    extra_files={
        "__srcfile__": "__targetpath__:__mode__",
        ...
    },
)
----

[subs="quotes"]
----
vfat_image(
    name="__partition.img.tar__",
    partition_size="__size__",
    subdir="__subdir__",
    src="__tree.tar__",
    extra_files={
        "__srcfile__": "__targetpath__:__mode__",
        ...
    },
)
----

Builds a filesystem image by putting the contents +__subdir__+ of the given input
+__tree.tar__+ into the filesystem. The filesystem image will have
given +__size__+ (specified as either bytes or a number following by
+K+, +M+ or +G+ respectively). The additionally given files will
also be installed into the target filesystem image under the given
target paths and file modes. For +ext4+ images, SELinux file contexts
can be specified to build a labelled filesystem.

=== Build disk image

Synopsis:

[subs="quotes"]
----
disk_image(
    name="__disk.img.tar__",
    layout="__partitions.csv__",
    partitions=[
        "__partition1.img.tar__",
        "__partition2.img.tar__",
        ...
    ],
)
----

Builds a disk image with given partition layout (see above for format file)
and containing the given partition images. The partition images should
generally be build using the +ext4_image+ or +vfat_image+ rules above.
They must be +tar+ archives containing a single file named +partition.img+
each.

=== Example

A complete example to build a disk image using a single partition populated
from the contents of a docker image:

----
docker_tar(
    name="tree.tar",
    src=":tree",
    dep=glob(["tree/**"]),
)

ext4_image(
    name="part1.img.tar",
    src=":tree.tar",
    partition_size="1G",
)

disk_image(
    name="disk.img.tar",
    layout=":partitions.csv",
    partitions=[
        ":part1.img.tar",
    ],
)
----

Commit message:

[IDX-2208] Build IC-OS version.txt for bazel use

toolchains/sysimage/README.adoc, after:

= Build tools for disk and filesystem images

This directory contains various scripts that allow building
filesystem and disk images from tar files, and extracting docker
images into appropriately shaped tar files.

It also contains build glue for bazel to make use of these tools
as build rules.

== Build tools

The following build tools are provided:

* +docker_tar.py+: Build a docker image and convert to tar file

* +build_vfat_image.py+: Build vfat fs image from tar file

* +build_ext4_image.py+: Build ext4 fs image from tar file

* +build_disk_image.py+: Build disk image from partition images

The tools are described in more details in the following
sections.

=== +docker_tar.py+: Build a docker image and convert to tar file

Call synopsis: +docker_tar.py _dockerarg_ _dockerarg..._ >__out.tar__+

The tool will call +docker build+ with all extra +_dockerargs_+
passed as arguments to the build. The container will be built,
subsequently extracted, and then saved as a +.tar+ file. The
+.tar+ will hold the contents of the docker image as a single
"flattened" tree (this is different from the output of
+docker save+ which contains a +.tar+ file consisting of
multiple layers of the docker build).

Timestamps and other non-reproducible data resulting from docker
build are squashed in this process, so this also produces
perfectly reproducible results as long as the +Dockerfile+
is suitably structured to avoid generating non-reproducible
artifacts (or takes care of "purging" any non-reproducible
artifacts at the end of the build).

The resulting +.tar+ file is written to stdout.

=== +build_vfat_image.py+ / +build_ext4_image.py+: Build fs image from tar file

Call synopsis: +build_XXX_image.py -s _size_ -o _out.tar_ -i _in.tar_ -p _rootpath_ -S _filecontexts_ _filespec..._+

The tool will build a filesystem image containing the filesystem tree from the
input +_in.tar_+ file as well as the given +_filespecs_+ as individual files.
The filesystem image will have the given nominal +_size_+. Since the image
will (usually) be a very sparse file containing lots of zeroes and some
build systems handle sparse files poorly, the built image is packaged up into
a +.tar+ file itself. The resulting +_out.tar_+ will be an archive
consisting of a single file by the name of +partition.img+. It is
permissible to omit both +_in.tar_+ as well as any +_filespecs_+ resulting
in an empty filesystem.

Size can be given in either bytes (without a unit) or a number followed by
+K+, +M+ or +G+ for kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes, respectively.

Optionally, a +_rootpath_+ can be given. This allows to include only the files
and directories below this path from the +_in.tar_+ (so the filesystem will
effectively contain only a subdirectory of the original archive). Optional,
a +_filecontexts_+ file can be given. This will result in the build of a
labeled filesystem using the SELinux file contexts specified here applied to
each file on the filesystem. (File contexts are not supported for +vfat+
filesystems).

+_filespecs_+ must be a list of zero or more entries of the following form:
+__sourcepath___:__targetpath__:__mode__+. This will cause the file identified
by +__sourcepath__+ to be installed into the target filesystem at the
location +__targetpath__+, owned by +root:root+ and having file system
mode +__mode__+ (given in octal, so e.g. +0755+ for executables and +0644+
for ordinarily readable files).

=== +build_disk_image.py+: Build a disk image from partition images

Call synopsis: +build_disk_image.py -o _out.tar_ -p _partitions.csv_ _part1.tar_ _part2.tar..._+

Builds a GPT-partitionend disk image and puts the given partition image
contents into the respective partitions. The output disk image is generally
a very sparse file containing lots of zeros and some build systems handle
sparse files poorly, so it is wrapped into a +.tar+ file after build.
The resulting +_out.tar_+ is a tar archive containing a single file
named +_disk.img_+ (this is a raw disk image, after unpacking it can be
directly used as e.g. disk image for +qemu+).

The +_partitions.csv_+ must be a CSV file specifying the desired partition layout.
It may consist of lines starting with +#+ designating comments (these are
ignored), and must otherwise contain partition specifications one-by-one in
the following form:

+__name__,__start__,__size__,__typecode__,__uuid__,__description__+

The field have the following semantics:

* +__name__+ is a free-form identifier (used for documentation purposes)

* +__start__+ is the start sector (see below)

* +__size__+ is the size of the partition in sectors

* +__typecode__+ kind of partition, valid values are +U+ for UEFI and +L+ for Linux partitions

* +__uuid__+ UUID written into the GPT, must be unique for the disk (and otherwise just a valid UUID format)

* +__description__+ Freeform text for documentation purposes

Start and size are given in "sector" units (512 bytes). Please take care that partitions
do not overlap, and that start and size are always whole multiples of 1 MByte.

Example structure:
----
esp   ,    2048,  204800,U,B78084E2-3363-1346-8C25-D426F26B8928,EFI system partition
grub  ,  206848,  204800,L,6788E4CF-F456-104E-9A34-A2C58CFB0EE6,Grub bootloader modules and config
config,  411648,  204800,L,A5BA3816-BEAA-D74D-993E-CFA5AA6BA1F6,System config store
A_boot,  616448, 2097152,L,DDF618FE-7244-B446-A175-3296E6B9D02E,Boot partition for system A
A_root, 2713600,20971520,L,7C0A626E-E5EA-E543-B5C5-300EB8304DB7,Root partition for system A
A_var ,23685120,20971520,L,22D2F5A6-1E39-D247-81CF-90C95C113E21,Mutable data partition for system A
B_boot,44656640, 2097152,L,D5214E4F-F7B0-B945-9A9B-52B9188DF4C5,Boot partition for system B
B_root,46753792,20971520,L,A78BC3A8-376C-054A-96E7-3904B915D0C5,Root partition for system B
B_var ,67725312,20971520,L,2237D1D1-CE96-584E-8EC5-8AE6661FAAE9,Mutable data partition for system B
----

The given partition images must be +.tar+ archives that contain exactly one file
named +partition.img+, each. Their contents will be dumped into the correct on-disk location
into their respective partitions in order of definition. Please make sure that the
partitions are sized appropriately (the partition image may be smaller, but must not
be larger than the target partition).

== Bazel build rules

The bazel rules can be imported using:

----
load("//toolchains/sysimage:toolchain.bzl", "docker_tar", "vfat_image", "ext4_image", "disk_image", "tar_extract")
----

=== Build docker image as tar

Synopsis:
[subs="quotes"]
----
docker_tar(
  name="__out.tar__",
  src=__dockerbuildir__,
  dep=[__dependencies...__],
  extra_args=[__args...__],
)
----

Builds a docker image using the given +__dockerbuilddir__+ as build context (this
directory should contain a +Dockerfile+). The bazel build rule needs to be
pointed at the directory itself. All contents of the docker context directory should
be given as additional +__dependencies__+ in order for bazel tracking to work
correctly. All given +__args__+ are passed as extraneous arguments to the
+docker build+ command.

=== Extract file from tar archive

[subs="quotes"]
----
tar_extract(
    name="__target filename__",
    src="__src.tar__",
    path="__path/to/file/in/tar__",
)
----

Extracts the given individual file from the given tar archive. The file can be
used as a generated files in subsequent build steps.

=== Build filesystem image

[subs="quotes"]
----
ext4_image(
    name="__partition.img.tar__",
    partition_size="__size__",
    file_contexts="__file_contexts__",
    subdir="__subdir__",
    src="__tree.tar__",
    extra_files={
        "__srcfile__": "__targetpath__:__mode__",
        ...
    },
)
----

[subs="quotes"]
----
vfat_image(
    name="__partition.img.tar__",
    partition_size="__size__",
    subdir="__subdir__",
    src="__tree.tar__",
    extra_files={
        "__srcfile__": "__targetpath__:__mode__",
        ...
    },
)
----

Builds a filesystem image by putting the contents +__subdir__+ of the given input
+__tree.tar__+ into the filesystem. The filesystem image will have
given +__size__+ (specified as either bytes or a number following by
+K+, +M+ or +G+ respectively). The additionally given files will
also be installed into the target filesystem image under the given
target paths and file modes. For +ext4+ images, SELinux file contexts
can be specified to build a labelled filesystem.

=== Build disk image

Synopsis:

[subs="quotes"]
----
disk_image(
    name="__disk.img.tar__",
    layout="__partitions.csv__",
    partitions=[
        "__partition1.img.tar__",
        "__partition2.img.tar__",
        ...
    ],
)
----

Builds a disk image with given partition layout (see above for format file)
and containing the given partition images. The partition images should
generally be build using the +ext4_image+ or +vfat_image+ rules above.
They must be +tar+ archives containing a single file named +partition.img+
each.

=== Compute sha256sum

Synopsis:
[subs="quotes"]
----
sha256sum(
    name = "binary.sha256",
    srcs = [":binary"],
)

sha256sum(
    name = "data.sha256",
    srcs = [":data"],
)

sha256sum(
    name = "version.txt",
    srcs = [":binary.sha256", ":data.sha256"],
    suffix = "-foo"
)
----

Computes the sha256sum of the input(s) and outputs its hash (hexadecimal).
Optionally, a suffix may be appended to the end of the hash.

=== Example

A complete example to build a disk image using a single partition populated
from the contents of a docker image:

----
docker_tar(
    name="tree.tar",
    src=":tree",
    dep=glob(["tree/**"]),
)

ext4_image(
    name="part1.img.tar",
    src=":tree.tar",
    partition_size="1G",
)

disk_image(
    name="disk.img.tar",
    layout=":partitions.csv",
    partitions=[
        ":part1.img.tar",
    ],
)
----
