ic-os/boundary-guestos/README.adoc, before:

= Boundary Node Guest OS

This contains the build scripts for using system images of Ubuntu for a Boundary Node as units of deployment and upgrades. More detailed informnation can be found link:doc/README.adoc[here].

== Dependencies
In addition to a standard installation of Ubuntu 20.4 at least the following packages are required:

* docker
* mtools (mmd)
* faketime
* android-sdk-ext4-utils (make_ext4fs)
* jo (JSON output from a shell)

== Prerequisites

The Boundary Node needs two IC binaries: `boundary-node-control-plane` and `boundary-node-prober`.
These can be build as described link:../../README.adoc#building-the-code[here].

== Quick build and test instructions (Linux)
To build a full system image, run:

[source,shell]
----
 scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img
----

A password for testing can be specified (-p) and a version string can be added (-v):

[source,shell]
----
  scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img -v 1979 -p password
----

If you want to include IC binaries (see above) that you have been locally building, append `-x`.
You might also want to set the version number to be used `-v`.

This can then, for example, be booted with libvirt, e.g.:

[source,shell]
----
  virt-install --disk /tmp/disk.img --import --memory 4096 \
   --os-variant ubuntu20.04 --network bridge=br0,mac=52:54:00:4f:f8:ec \
   --network bridge=vlan66,mac=52:54:00:33:4e:b0 --graphics none \
   --name boundary-guestos --console pty,target.type=virtio \
   --serial pty --boot uefi
----

== Developing with the system

The entirety of the actual Ubuntu operating system is contained in the
`rootfs/` subdirectory. See instructions link:rootfs/README.adoc[there] on how to
make changes to the OS and the included components.

== Directory organization

The directory `rootfs/` contains everything related to building a bootable Ubuntu system. It uses various template
directories (e.g., `opt/`) that are simply copied verbatim to the target system -- you can just drop files there to
include them into the image.

The directory `bootloader/` contains everything related to building EFI firmware and the grub bootloader image. 

All build scripts are contained in the 'scripts/' subdirectory.

== CI build

For CI purposes, the build is split such that the network-dependent
part (docker) is separated from the other parts of the build pipeline.

To run these two steps separately, execute:

[source,shell]
----
  scripts/build-docker.sh /tmp/dockertmp
  scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img -t /tmp/dockertmp/bootloader.tar -u /tmp/dockertmp/rootfs.tar
----

== Under the hood

The Ubuntu system is built by converting the official Ubuntu docker image
into a bootable "bare-metal" image (or "virtual-metal" VM image). This
results in a very minimal system with basically no services running at all.

Commit message:

Update command to copy binaries at the correct place for disk image build

ic-os/boundary-guestos/README.adoc, after:

= Boundary Node Guest OS

This contains the build scripts for using system images of Ubuntu for a Boundary Node as units of deployment and upgrades. More detailed informnation can be found link:doc/README.adoc[here].

== Dependencies
In addition to a standard installation of Ubuntu 20.4 at least the following packages are required:

* docker
* mtools (mmd)
* faketime
* android-sdk-ext4-utils (make_ext4fs)
* jo (JSON output from a shell)

== Prerequisites

The Boundary Node needs two IC binaries: `boundary-node-control-plane` and `boundary-node-prober`.
These can be build as described link:../../README.adoc#building-the-code[here].

This will get all the artifacts in <root>/artifacts/release directory. Run the following command to copy the required binaries in the correct place:
[source, shell]
----
gunzip -c -d ../../artifacts/release/boundary-node-control-plane.gz > rootfs/opt/ic/bin/boundary-node-control-plane
gunzip -c -d ../../artifacts/release/boundary-node-prober.gz > rootfs/opt/ic/bin/boundary-node-prober
----

== Quick build and test instructions (Linux)
To build a full system image, run:

[source,shell]
----
 scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img
----

A password for testing can be specified (-p) and a version string can be added (-v):

[source,shell]
----
  scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img -v 1979 -p password
----

If you want to include IC binaries (see above) that you have been locally building, append `-x`.
You might also want to set the version number to be used `-v`.

This can then, for example, be booted with libvirt, e.g.:

[source,shell]
----
  virt-install --disk /tmp/disk.img --import --memory 4096 \
   --os-variant ubuntu20.04 --network bridge=br0,mac=52:54:00:4f:f8:ec \
   --network bridge=vlan66,mac=52:54:00:33:4e:b0 --graphics none \
   --name boundary-guestos --console pty,target.type=virtio \
   --serial pty --boot uefi
----

== Developing with the system

The entirety of the actual Ubuntu operating system is contained in the
`rootfs/` subdirectory. See instructions link:rootfs/README.adoc[there] on how to
make changes to the OS and the included components.

== Directory organization

The directory `rootfs/` contains everything related to building a bootable Ubuntu system. It uses various template
directories (e.g., `opt/`) that are simply copied verbatim to the target system -- you can just drop files there to
include them into the image.

The directory `bootloader/` contains everything related to building EFI firmware and the grub bootloader image. 

All build scripts are contained in the 'scripts/' subdirectory.

== CI build

For CI purposes, the build is split such that the network-dependent
part (docker) is separated from the other parts of the build pipeline.

To run these two steps separately, execute:

[source,shell]
----
  scripts/build-docker.sh /tmp/dockertmp
  scripts/build-disk-image.sh -o /tmp/disk.img -t /tmp/dockertmp/bootloader.tar -u /tmp/dockertmp/rootfs.tar
----

== Under the hood

The Ubuntu system is built by converting the official Ubuntu docker image
into a bootable "bare-metal" image (or "virtual-metal" VM image). This
results in a very minimal system with basically no services running at all.
